chore: Electron 21 blog post (#262)
electron/electronjs.org-new: blog/electron-21-0.md

---
title: Electron 21.0.0
date: 2022-09-27T00:00:00.000Z
authors:
    - name: ckerr
      url: 'https://github.com/ckerr'
      image_url: 'https://github.com/ckerr.png?size=96'
    - name: vertedinde
      url: 'https://github.com/vertedinde'
      image_url: 'https://github.com/vertedinde.png?size=96'
    - name: georgexu99
      url: 'https://github.com/georgexu99'
      image_url: 'https://github.com/georgexu99.png?size=96'
slug: electron-21-0

---

> Electron 20.0.0 has been released! It includes upgrades to Chromium `106`, V8 `10.4`, and Node.js `16.16.0`. Read below for more details!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Electron 21.0.0 has been released! It includes upgrades to Chromium `106`, V8 `10.4`, and Node.js `16.16.0`. Read below for more details!
```

---

> The Electron team is excited to announce the release of Electron 21.0.0! You can install it with npm via `npm install electron@latest` or download it from our [releases website](https://www.electronjs.org/releases/stable). Continue reading for details about this release and please share any feedback you have!

Reviewer: > download it from our [releases website](https://www.electronjs.org/releases/stable)

I've never really paid attention to this paragraph, but I don't think the releases website has a download link on it. It _does_ link to the GitHub release, though. Do we want to amend that?

Author: Oof, good catch, I think that's been there for a long time. I'll relink to the GH releases page 👍

Author: Actually, just took a look at our releases website page, and it's still listing the betas/alphas as 20-x-y. 😬 Will see if that can get updated

Reviewer: @VerteDinde this would require a manual bump in our old `electron-releases` package and a manual redeploy in Heroku.

We should link to https://releases.electronjs.org/releases/stable instead.

> The Electron team is excited to announce the release of Electron 21.0.0! You can install it with npm via `npm install electron@latest` or download it from our [releases website](https://www.electronjs.org/releases/stable). Continue reading for details about this release and please share any feedback you have!

Reviewer: > please share any feedback you have!

Where do we want people to share feedback. Twitter? Discord? GitHub issue tracker?

## Notable Changes

### New Features

TODO: Add features here

### Stack Changes

* Chromium `106`
    * [New in Chrome 106](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-106/)
    * [New in Chrome 105](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-105/)

>     * [New in DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-devtools-106/)

Reviewer: Do we also want to link https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-devtools-105/ ?

Author: In previous posts, we just did the latest DevTools release, but I honestly don't see a reason to not do both - I'll pop that in.

* Node.js `16.16.0`
    * [Node 16.16.0 blog post](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v16.16.0/)
* V8 `10.4`

> ## Breaking & API Changes
> 
> Below are breaking changes introduced in Electron 21. More information about these and future changes can be found on the [Planned Breaking Changes](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/breaking-changes) page.
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Breaking & API Changes

Electron 21 has no breaking API changes.

More information about past and future changes can be found on the [Planned Breaking Changes](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/breaking-changes) page.

```

## End of Support for 18.x.y

Electron 18.x.y has reached end-of-support as per the project's [support policy](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/tutorial/electron-timelines#version-support-policy). Developers and applications are encouraged to upgrade to a newer version of Electron.

| E18 (Mar'22) | E19 (May'22) | E20 (Aug'22) | E21 (Sep'22) | E22 (Dec'22) |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| 18.x.y       | 19.x.y       | 20.x.y       | 21.x.y       | 22.x.y       |
| 17.x.y       | 18.x.y       | 19.x.y       | 20.x.y       | 21.x.y       |
| 16.x.y       | 17.x.y       | 18.x.y       | 19.x.y       | 20.x.y       |

> ## What's Next

Reviewer: If possible, should we mention the post-summit blog post? Not sure if it'll be completed in time.

Author: Yeah, if we can get it out in time, I think that'd be a great idea!

Author: I think we'll likely publish that post after this one, so we won't hold for it

> In the short term, you can expect the team to continue to focus on keeping up with the development of the major components that make up Electron, including Chromium, Node, and V8. Although we are careful not to make promises about release dates, our plan is to release new major versions of Electron with new versions of those components approximately every 2 months.

Reviewer 2: IIRC, in recent releases this section was to discuss support changes -- e.g. when we jumped from 3 supported versions to 4 and also back to 3 again -- but since that has all played out, this section doesn't seem to be saying anything. Do we still need it?

If we went straight from the table above to the timeline link below, IMO that would still work

Author: Yeah, I think that's fair! I'll remove this paragraph

---
title: Electron 21.0.0
date: 2022-09-27T00:00:00.000Z
authors:
    - name: ckerr
      url: 'https://github.com/ckerr'
      image_url: 'https://github.com/ckerr.png?size=96'
    - name: vertedinde
      url: 'https://github.com/vertedinde'
      image_url: 'https://github.com/vertedinde.png?size=96'
    - name: georgexu99
      url: 'https://github.com/georgexu99'
      image_url: 'https://github.com/georgexu99.png?size=96'
slug: electron-21-0

---

> Electron 21.0.0 has been released! It includes upgrades to Chromium `106`, V8 `10.4`, and Node.js `16.16.0`. Read below for more details!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Electron 21.0.0 has been released! It includes upgrades to Chromium `106`, V8 `10.6`, and Node.js `16.16.0`. Read below for more details!
```

---

The Electron team is excited to announce the release of Electron 21.0.0! You can install it with npm via `npm install electron@latest` or download it from our [releases website](https://releases.electronjs.org/releases/stable). Continue reading for details about this release.

If you have any feedback, please share it with us on Twitter, or join our community [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/electronjs)! Bugs and feature requests can be reported in Electron's [issue tracker](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues).

## Notable Changes

### Stack Changes

* Chromium `106`
    * [New in Chrome 106](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-106/)
    * [New in Chrome 105](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-105/)
    * [New in DevTools 106](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-devtools-106/)
    * [New in DevTools 105](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-devtools-105/)
* Node.js `16.16.0`
    * [Node 16.16.0 blog post](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v16.16.0/)

> * V8 `10.4`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* V8 `10.6`
```

### New Features

* Added `webFrameMain.origin`. [#35534](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/35534)
* Added new `WebContents.ipc` and `WebFrameMain.ipc` APIs. [#35231](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/35231) 
* Added support for panel-like behavior. Window can float over full-screened apps. [#34388](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/34388)
* Added support for push notifications from APNs for macOS apps. [#33574](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/33574) 

## Breaking & API Changes

Below are breaking changes introduced in Electron 21. 

### V8 Memory Cage Enabled

> Electron 20 enables [V8 sandboxed pointers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HSap8-J3HcrZvT7-5NsbYWcjfc0BVoops5TDHZNsnko/edit), following Chrome's [decision to do the same in Chrome 103](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/commit/9a6a76bf13d3ca1c6788de193afc5513919dd0ed). This has some implications for native modules. This feature has performance and security benefits, but also places some new restrictions on native modules, e.g. use of ArrayBuffers that point to external ("off-heap") memory. Please see [this blog post](https://electronjs.org/blog/v8-memory-cage) for more information. [#34724](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/34724) 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Electron 21 enables [V8 sandboxed pointers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HSap8-J3HcrZvT7-5NsbYWcjfc0BVoops5TDHZNsnko/edit), following Chrome's [decision to do the same in Chrome 103](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/commit/9a6a76bf13d3ca1c6788de193afc5513919dd0ed). This has some implications for native modules. This feature has performance and security benefits, but also places some new restrictions on native modules, e.g. use of ArrayBuffers that point to external ("off-heap") memory. Please see [this blog post](https://electronjs.org/blog/v8-memory-cage) for more information. [#34724](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/34724) 
```
